---
layout: default
title: DH 2016 proposal
authors: Eric Rochester, Purdom Lindblad
---
#DH 2016
Short Paper, max 1,500 words
* cite the reader/response/book open data project (check with Alison
  Booth)

* layers between me as reader and presentation of paper/poster (U. Eco)

* Purdom: Why Bibframe? pros and cons? something better? best practice for
  institutional work vs best practice for small, tiny-scale projects;
how to aggregate results, do we strive to interconnect with other
'reading' journals (why this standard? consideration of others?) Picking
an ontology is hard...and of interest, we considered x,y,z
- FRBR or other areas of experimentation/interest (check to see if there
  are other FRBR projects in the wild)

* Reader response theory, Azar Nafisi's Republic of the Imagination and
  other? Sofia Samata -- maybe; review culture studies stuff--but not
able to make generalizations since just one person reading
-performance theory? different ways of performing the reader experience,
performing identity; intersections with kindle? 
(check Kelli's reading list to see if anything would be helpful)

* investigation into how small, personal tracking can show the evolution
  of research questions/agendas


* Related/in-conversation projects:
  * http://www.open.ac.uk/Arts/RED/


The Genealogy of Reading project emerged from a curiosity about the shape of personal reading habits: what books caused me to read other books, and how the books I’ve read helped develop thematic networks over time. If we can map the process of how one reads, could we begin to see broader themes, issues, or concerns that hint at why one reads? The project takes an abstract model of linked open data and applies it to a web-based project on personal reading habits. Undertaking the project itself affords ways to learn the constraints and opportunities of linked data for myself and creates a sandbox for thinking about leveraging linked data in a variety of other contexts. Visualizations will help map relationships between books—particularly to get a sense of what books cause me to read other books, explore the regional distribution of authors, and reveal broad themes within a cohort of books.

We use a combination of technologies to create a system that allows for relatively easy management and reuse of linked data. We’ve implemented this site in Jekyll (http://jekyllrb.com/), and have developed a custom plugin to scan some of a site’s content to extract any triples encoded using RDFa. Optionally, it supplements these triples by querying DBpedia (http://dbpedia.org) for more information about the books, authors, and other topics being discussed on the site. The plugin writes all of the extracted and aggregated information out as JSON-LD (http://json-ld.org/), which itself can be used as input for visualizations we create using D3 (http://d3js.org/) and other modern visualization libraries.


Slides/Poster Needs:
* URL to site and github repos, our email, twitter handles
* flip visualizations and RFDa graph
* More context about what the project is about, is tracking, hopes to
  track in future
* uses/applications--keep mostly on personal reading, but can point to
  ways of making it easier for ppl to integrate into their personal writing,\
  some kind of editor
* more data/readings entries


--for later:
* Inter-textuality studies and ways books act as responses to each
  other, discourses that include references, form a web of meaning, no
book is a meaning unto itself

--Born Digital Materials
* Social Media Feed Manager
* International Digitized Ephemeral Project
* VIAF (Virtual International Authority File) compared to DBPedia
* DBPedia Spotlight Named Entity Recognition Software (NER Software)

--thinking about combing place and name, as well as entities
